The Joe Rogan experience. Um, maybe for the last few months,
since we started the Hulu, the American saga, a series,
people been pushing me to do a podcast. Right. Mm-hmm <affirmative>, um,
I, they would love listening to you. I end up not doing one,
but we have one for the show. Of course, that kind of does, you know,
like after the show go off, you could go and listen and hear, uh, you know,
more inside detail to the story. But still during that process, it was like,
you need to do a, a podcast, whereas, because just the way you think,
um, we just need more people with that kind of thinking, you know what I mean?
Yeah. So when he just said, does he talk to us? You know, he don't talk to us,
but then after he was finished talking to himself for 44 minutes,
he felt a weight come off of him. I was son, but there's a scripture on that,
bro. What is it? The scripture is in the BA of VA GDA. Ooh. Is that the Karan?
No, no, no. I don't know. I don't that's I know the Karan is the Quran.
All right. I just need to know. So the bag of vagida it means the song of God,
just put G I T a GDA, the GDA, right? Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
it's actually the words of Krishna.
And he says contemplation with yourself,
which is talking with yourself will take you further than praying.
Ooh. Okay. And if a man is not contemplating, right.
If you're not, whether you doing it verbally, like right now,
we talking out loud, we all got that voice in our head. Yeah, man,
you had that voice. You was like, yo,
should I put the condom on the Nu <laugh>t.
You't that loud. No more though. I feel you we've been there.
You have that voice.
And, and you know, if you, if you listen to it or you don't listen to it. Right,
right, right. But the bottom line is that according to Krisna,
it's that contemplation that makes us better.
It's that reflection of what we did, what we are gonna do. And, and when you,
and you verbalize it, even out loud, what? I mean, the spoken word.
It's even more powerful song. You get it out. Yeah.
That's how I felt. That's good. I, but it I'm telling you part of it was like,
I was not letting Joe talk to me. I, I was like, that, man.
He not doing that, but I'm, I'm glad I did it, man. The.
Bodyda did not reach him.
Yeah. Yeah. You gotta do a podcast. Huh? He should.
I think, look.
Son.
The cause.
They tell people, they get, they get mad money too. Son, you can make money.
The most important thing is that you, you have a voice.
Like you're an interesting guy. If you did a podcast, it would be interesting.
There's a lot of people,
it's good to have a bunch of different people doing it from all different,
different styles of art. Different. If a.
Person is already, if a person has already been interesteding people. Yeah.
For what people want to wanna keep getting different pieces of you,
how can you give it to him? Talk about that's a, that's a easy.
Thats. That's a no brainer. Quote. The bogova GDA. It's you and Duncan.
Trusel the only people who quote the VA. Bava GDA. That's hilarious.
I love that book. Oh, that's an amazing book, man.
That's what Oppenheimer quoted. When he, uh,
watched the first atomic bomb blow off said I am become death.
Destroyer of worlds. The quote, right from the about GDA. Yeah. That's crazy.
That's a. Yeah. That's a, that is a fascinating book, man.
There's all sorts of illusions to like UFOs and.
I was about say that talk about.
Well, well the Marata, which is longer version. Yeah.
The BA so the Baja vagida is about 700 verses.
That's took out of the Marata, which is one of the longest,
it's not the longest poem, but.
It's in the top two. How do you say it? Is it Maha? Bararata how do you say.
It? Yeah. You might have that. B is in there. I't know if that B is silent,
you know? Yeah.
That's the one with all that I know. I Don know words. It got silent. B yeah.
Maha. Barrata.
That's that's.
What word has a silent B. I never even know that was where.
Existed. Maha. Barrata a silent B there something I,
that that's gotta a be in there that that be makes noise. Right.
But it's uh, there's vionas in that right? Where there's flying crafts.
There's a bunch of weird.
The people face history had to figure out what the are they talking about?
Yeah. And, uh, you know,
that ancient civilization was measuring what they call coppers every 35,000
years, you know? And they were saying, you know, measuring coppers.
Yeah. No like that's that's that's like K a P P 80, like capanana oh, copper.
Oh, I got a tendency to, I I would wanna just make a disclaimer real quick.
I have a tendency to pronounce words. The way I pronounce <laugh>.
I have a tendency to listen. Understand the words way you pronounce it. Words,
everything. I love my. <laugh> so yo, yo,
I say this real quick. I forgot this. I did my show earlier. Right? Son.
Joe said he never spin his six, 16 say.
Oh, you never spit a six 16. No, I didn't. I'm very white. <laugh> eight. No,
no, man. He, I didn't even know what he was talking about. I had to like go.
Over it with, tell him the bars. You said you spit.
Oh, what? I said, hip hop.
Hips.
He was asking me about sugar hill. And I said, yeah, I remember that.
And then I started saying.
It. I don't think I was asking you about sugar hair, sir.
I think we talked about no, no, no. I wish I could remember exactly. Didn't he?
I think you did. We went to sugar hair after, after a period of time. Yeah.
You asked me if I knew. No, no, this is what I said. You, I spent 16.
You was like this, what you told me, Joe, you said I don't have time to spit 16.
No, I don't have any time to, this is what you said though.
Don't you said I have much better said enjoy it.
You said, Joe, you enjoy listening to it. I don't have time to do it.
That's what Joe, you.
Said I have much better things to do my time than spit 16.
I don't think that's what I said. I'm pretty sure that's what you said. Well,
what I said was I'm too busy to do one, two more thing and I like rap,
but I don't like to do it. Cause I maybe I would love it, but I'm not going to,
I don't have any time. Okay. That's all right. That's not your thing. Yep. Yeah.
That's all it means. Don't try to twist it. I didn't twist it.
Taste dare takess for itself. I am the producer.
I'm youre.
Treating me in a terrible man. I fire misoting edit.
It. You gonna edit it out. Let's edit. It's edit this.
We were talking about how few white rappers ever actually make it like the tiny
percentage in, in comparison to the ones who try it. Like how many of ' try it?
You gotta think there must be millions and millions that have tried it. Right?
Right, right. Like there's like a small handful of guys.
Well, in all reality,
it's a small handful period for race. So that's true too.
So if you look at the ratio, I'm a ratio guy. So as we talk, you'll see,
I'm always, I'm always pulling some numbers into things,
but if you look at the ratio, let's say 1 million white guys tried, right.
Five made it. Let's say 50 million blacks tried. You see what I mean?
So, so it's usually you the ratio, right?
Many more doing it. I see what you're saying. Yeah. Yeah.
Makes sense. But hiphop, let me just say something about hiphop. Cause I could,
I could say that right is dead. No <laugh> I could hip hop nervous.
I'm just check it. I was like, you killed it. I Tekashi tried to kill it,
but go.
Ahead. No, the beautiful thing is that hip hop. It is really one of those. No.
Okay. I'm sorry. No, no, it's all good. I'm you know, that's I like,
I like this, this, this energy here, but hip hop is a pure American,
uh, creation culture. Yeah. It's like, it's like, it's, you know,
people try to chase it. Nah, man. Chase it right here. Yeah.
And when it was formed, right. It's definitely, you know, you know,
lot of young black men, you know,
to go back to uh coolhook and grandma flash and, and melody, Mel,
and um, spoony G you know, you could go back to the classes, you know,
grandma CA right.
But within grandma CA crew with the corut brother, you got Charlie chase.
Right.
So you got the Spanish brothers there within our first hip hop songs that we
love, you know, L KU J rock, the bells. Oh,
guess's who produced that? Rick Rubin. Mm. He got the white brother there.
Oh yeah. We was talking about that. Um, so the,
so the youth culture of America at that time, right.
Even with fab five Freddy going down, you know,
town to the C B GB crowd and all andlonie and all these,
all these things was melding from our culture now. Whereas of course,
uh, it's it's a dominantly, a black expression, right. It's you know,
we could say we dominated the culture,
but it took angles from every other part of New York to,
to make it exist. And that means it took our Spanish bar,
others and their culture.
It took out white brothers and their culture to all form it. And then of course,
when wtang came, we bought the Asian culture in, you know what I mean? Mmhmm.
Yeah. And, and UAN, when you say that, it's.
Like, it came in like a thunderstorm, like woo.
You know what I mean? So, so we should, so, so,
but we should be proud to know that it's, that it, you know,
that it it's like an inclusive American art form. It is,
you know what I mean? And look, Bruce Lee, who was an American,
right. People gotta, you know, he represents the Asian culture,
but he was born in America, went back, made it big in Hong Kong. Right.
And they came back to America and took it to the next level again.
And when you look at some of those break dance moves and some of the
philosophies that he brought to mixing more styles together, you know, G KDO,
which means the way of the intercepting fists,
or also the way of the combined boxing with fencing with, with,
with wing Chung. Yes. Right. He, he,
he put all those MMASS together before it was even that right.
When it was taboo. Exactly.
Hip hop also is that same type of product where you do have the,
the soul of James Brown, the, the jazz of the loneliius monk.
You know what I mean? The, the rock beat a Billy SQUI. Yeah.
I got a big beat or honky tonk wall by rolling stones. Those are break beats,
but yet you also got the Latin feeling of the Mabo Kings, uh,
and uh, songs like Apache and the Mexican. Do you, do.
You think hip hop is evolving and not just cuz is it
evolving? Um, <affirmative> in a sense of the creativity of it?
I think it, it is definitely because.
People, they got a situation now where it don't have to evolve.
Mo people have found a way to make money off of something that people may not
agree with. There's like hot. But do you think hip hop is evolving?
Yes. It, it always evolved. Right?
So it's part of the evolution we are seeing now is as we in my
generation, we've relied on music that was created before us,
because we went to, we came in a time where it took music programs outta school.
Right. So you didn't learn how to play a guitar, piano and the,
your music equipment or your instrument became your turntables.
It became your drum machine. Right. Eventually became our sample.
And then we sampled a lot of songs,
a lot of breaks from old records that already existed. Right. Right.
But this generation, right. They're not actually forced to sample.
They actually could take their keyboard, their drum machine, their laptop,
and just create and on their phone too. Yeah. And on their phone,
it just create the beat. Right. And so now the beat has no, uh,
historical reference to it in the sense of, oh, that was a James Brown sample.
And that was a Marvin gay sample. No, this that's just that kid who,
whether he did fruitie loops and threw some co progressing together,
or whether he sat there on his garage band on his phone and, and,
and hit the guitar program that comes with it. Right.
Or whatever the creativity of it is now having this form of
originality. Right. Right. Now, of course, once something like that happens,
there's a formula. So we keep hearing that same formula exists right now. Right.
But I think one of the greatest evolution of hip hop right. Is,
and, and, and that's ever,
I'm gonna use the word evolution loose because when I think about the coldrust
brothers and the four MDs, they did this anyway in the beginning.
But hip hop has become more melodic now than it did in the
nineties, in the early two thousands. Right. So what I mean by that, you know,
rappers now, you know, you know, I'm just so D
like it, it's all melody, it's all, you know, it's all chanting, right.
Uh, it has the regga chant vibe to it. When we was doing it,
I smoke on the Mike like smoke and Joe Fraer the L Lisa. Right.
And is all aggressive chop wrap, you know what I mean? So,
so to see that it evolves to this melodic form, and then you look at Kanye,
he's now took it to gospel.
It's melodic as hell right now. Snoop.
Took it to the Snoop lion.
But Snoop lion, he was Snoop was really successful. The Snoop lion thing.
Didn't wasn't that successful, but the one, he, he won the album gospel album.
I think he was getting awards and nominated and like,
and stayed on top of billboard for.
A while. Yeah. And now Kanye is, is in that world. So, so it's evolving, right.